When you're ready to scale the number of pods in your deployment,
you'll use the kubectl scale-deployment command.
For example, kubectl scale deployment, deployment name,
--replicas=, then the desired number of replicas,
in this case, 3.
To scale the number of nodes,
you'll use the gcloud container clusters resize command,
passing in the name of the cluster, then --num-nodes,
followed by the desired number of nodes,
in this case, 5.
Let's add a couple of more pods.
We'll use kubectl scale deployment, deployment name, and set the replicas to 3.
Now when we hit the application,
we can see that there are three different independent
pods responding to our requests.
Notice that the original pod has been running for longer than the two
that were just started up to make a total of 3.
Let's say that you decided that your app does not need three nodes.
You can scale it down to 1 by running gcloud container clusters resize,
name of the cluster, --num-nodes 1.
This will remove two of the nodes from the node pool
so that you are left with only 1.
Notice that we still have three pods,
but two of them have been running for a shorter period of time.
When there were three nodes, it balanced one pod on each node.
When we'd scaled the node pool from three nodes to one,
it had to spin up two new pods on the single node.
Let's scale it back up to three nodes.
Now we have three nodes.
Notice that two of them are very new.
Now we're back to three pods again.
To update the application, you'll need to build and tag a new Docker image,
then push it to the repository.
In this example, we create a new image for demo with a 2.0 tag, then push it.
Once the image is in the repository,
you can use kubectl to set the demo image for the existing
demo app deployment to the new image.
Kubernetes will then automatically spin up new pods with the new image,
drain traffic from the old pods over to the new pods,
then remove the old pods.
Let's change the message from Hello to Goodbye so that we can create
a new image and update the running application.
We'll tag this one as 2.0, then push it to the repository.
Now we can run the kubectl set image and change the image that we have deployed.
When we hit the URL,
we can see that the new message from our 2.0 version is there.
We have three new pods that have started up with the new version of the application.